The Georgia Tech Strategic Plan – The Next 10 Years

Dear Yellow Jackets:

I am pleased to share the new strategic plan for the Georgia Institute of Technology. This plan presents
our shared vision for the next decade. It is grounded in our commitment to developing leaders who
advance technology and improve the human condition, and is driven by a set of ambitious goals and
bold actions to grow the impact we have in the world.
We envision an institution that leverages its unmatched scale and resources to address the most
crucial challenges of our time. An engine of innovation and entrepreneurship that helps position our
city and state as vibrant hubs of economic opportunity and dynamism. A global institution that
develops committed, global leaders who can build bridges of collaboration around the world. An
inclusive academic community committed to expanding access so that more voices, more minds, and
more perspectives can contribute to creating a better future.
Our world today is wrought with complex challenges that will define the future of our communities,
our nation, and our species on this planet: how to power a growing world economy without heating
our planet beyond repair and without harming the ecosystems our lives depend on; how to provide
access to food, clean water, education, and healthcare to a world population that has doubled during
my own lifetime and will add another billion by the end of this decade; how to combat social
inequities, racial injustice, and gender discrimination; how to strengthen our democracy, resolve
conflict, maintain peace, and defend ourselves against emerging security threats; how to prepare the
world to fend off the next pandemic.
Because of our scale and the caliber of the talent we attract and develop, Georgia Tech is in a unique
position to respond to these challenges. Our graduates drive innovation in business, government, and
academia; they lead transformative companies and create new ones; and they influence the thinking of
other leaders in the private and public sectors. Our faculty consistently deliver breakthroughs in
science and technology, they critically assess the potential and risk of new technologies, and they
shape the minds of current and future leaders.

-- 1 of 22 --

Our plan is to amplify that impact by expanding access to more talented individuals of more
backgrounds, ensuring that our graduates are equipped to lead and make a difference and that our
research responds to questions of great consequence, empowering innovators to create new solutions
and companies to make them accessible, and opening the doors of technology and innovation to
everyone.
The priorities articulated in this strategic plan are firmly grounded in our main core value. Our students
are our top priority, and that commitment shines through in our goals. We strive for excellence, thrive
on diversity and celebrate collaboration. We champion innovation, on our campus and around us. We
nurture the well-being of our entire community and are committed to ethical behavior and
responsible stewardship.
Georgia Tech developed this 10-year plan through a highly inclusive process involving more than 5,700
individuals, a 64-member steering committee, and six working groups comprised of 250 students,
faculty, staff, and alumni. This plan belongs to all of us. And it is up to all of us to make it a reality. As
we like to say around here: We can do that!
Ángel Cabrera
President, Georgia Tech

-- 2 of 22 --

Letter from the co-chairs

Colleagues:

In Fall 2019, President Cabrera challenged us to bring together the entire Georgia Tech community and
dream big. We did. Thousands of participants, including more than 2,600 students, attended meetings,
workshops, and informational sessions or webinars, sharing their perspectives and dreams for Georgia
Tech. The work continued outside of the meetings, under the guidance of the 64-member steering
committee. Ideas were shared, discussed, refined, and built upon to produce a plan that is aspirational,
inspirational, and because we’re Georgia Tech, attainable. This is OUR plan. It is specific but also
flexible enough to leave room for unanticipated opportunities and even disruption.
In the middle of designing this plan, we were all faced with a pandemic that demanded our attention in
safely operating a major research university while compelling us to develop solutions to save lives
worldwide. This strategic plan takes aim at these very kinds of issues. No matter how great the
challenge, Georgia Tech is working hard to innovate, lead, and collaborate in creating solutions to the
world’s most complex problems.
We are a technological research university. It is in our name and an important part of our mission, and
yet we offer so much more. Our students develop their leadership capabilities by applying a full
spectrum of skills and knowledge acquired through their Georgia Tech education. Our students gain
holistic learning across science, technology, engineering, math, arts, humanities, business, and social
sciences. Through greater interdisciplinary and experiential learning experiences, we will nurture their
creativity and inspire them to become ethically grounded, globally aware leaders. And, we are
committed to lifetime learning, from assisting K-12 in STEM education to partnering with business to
develop graduate degrees and professional education. Progress and Service — for all.
Our new mission statement, our ambitious vision, and our actionable goals and objectives all set the
stage for carrying out our motto of Progress and Service to amplify our impact, champion innovation,
connect globally, expand access, cultivate well-being, and lead by example. As we mobilize this plan,
we will expect measurable progress through a culture of inclusive excellence and a cadence of
measurement and accountability.
We expect that this living document will be reviewed and refined each year, with ongoing evaluation of
our progress. We also anticipate that Colleges, Schools, and programs will develop their own plans to
define ways that each division of the Institute can bring the new strategic plan to life. We look forward
to your ongoing participation in that process. It has been our privilege to work alongside so many of
you in designing Georgia Tech’s new strategic plan for the future. Our future — together.
Maryam Alavi, Dean and Stephen P. Zelnak Jr. Chair, Scheller College of Business
Steven McLaughlin, Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs
Co-Chairs, Strategic Planning Task Force

-- 3 of 22 --

The Georgia Tech Mission
The Georgia Institute of Technology is a public research university established by the state of Georgia
in Atlanta in 1885 and committed to
developing leaders who advance technology and improve the human condition.

Our Motto
Progress and Service

-- 4 of 22 --

The Georgia Tech Vision 2020-2030
Progress and Service for All
Over the next decade, Georgia Tech will become an example of inclusive innovation, a leading
technological research university of unmatched scale, relentlessly committed to serving the public
good; breaking new ground in addressing the biggest local, national, and global challenges and
opportunities of our time; making technology broadly accessible; and developing exceptional,
principled leaders from all backgrounds ready to produce novel ideas and create solutions with real
human impact.
We will deliver on this vision by building an outstanding and diverse community of learning, discovery,
and creation in an inclusive and collaborative environment focused on innovation and access. We will
develop healthy and vibrant learning environments that support holistic learning and personal growth.
We will be leaders in educational innovation and develop a global learning platform of unmatched
impact and scale to support learners throughout their life journeys. We will challenge ourselves to
push the boundaries of research while focusing on the most consequential questions and problems
faced by humanity. And we will act as a creative engine that will position our city and our state as
examples of inclusive entrepreneurship and innovation.

Progress and Service
Since its founding in 1885 by an act of the state government, the Georgia Institute of Technology has
become a leading global research university, a strategic economic development asset for Georgia, and
an essential element of the national system of science and technology. Driven by a commitment to
Progress and Service, Georgia Tech has produced extraordinary engineers, scientists, entrepreneurs,
and leaders in business, government, academia and nonprofits, who have had a transformative impact
locally and around the world.
Georgia Tech brings together scholars and innovators from a wide variety of fields driven by the idea
that technology has the power to improve the human condition. We don’t just develop technology for
technology’s sake. We advance technology and the science that supports it, and we find novel ways to
leverage and deploy it, to change our world for the better. And we develop leaders who think critically
about the problems we face and the technology at our disposal, find new solutions, and create value
for the greater good.
Technology has helped humanity achieve a standard of living that was unimaginable just a few decades
ago. Technology has contributed to the reduction in extreme poverty and hunger; to giving more
people access to basic education, water, and sanitation; to helping people live longer, better lives than
ever before.
Yet, while we celebrate these achievements, we recognize that the progress has been uneven, that
some of the solutions have created their own challenges, and that unforeseen events like the Covid-19
pandemic can delay and even reverse decades of progress. Indeed, much remains to be done —around

-- 5 of 22 --

the world and at home. We need to find new ways to create economic opportunity and enable social
mobility; build more livable communities; provide affordable housing and sustainable transportation;
make education, healthcare, clean water, and energy available to everyone; combat old and emerging
diseases; and keep us all safe and free. And we need to do that while combatting climate change,
reducing the stress on our planet, and protecting ourselves against the threat of new infectious
diseases.
Technology will be essential in addressing these challenges, but only if it is grounded in a critical
understanding of its social, economic, environmental, and cultural context and if available where
needed. In order to not only advance technology but deepen our understanding of the human
condition and find novel ways to improve it, our research and teaching approach incorporates
perspectives not just from engineering, and physical and biological sciences, but from a multitude of
disciplines: social and behavioral sciences, humanities, business, policy, arts and design, and other
fields. We need to educate talented scientists and engineers, and also designers, innovators, business
leaders, and humanists who can deepen our understanding and shape our thinking about the most
consequential issues that we face — the aspects of the human condition that need improving.

Embracing All Voices
The magnitude of the challenges and opportunities we face also demands that we empower, include,
and engage more people, backgrounds, and perspectives in the process of learning, discovery, and
creation. Over the years, we have learned that progress needs all voices to be heard, all minds to be
cultivated, and all talent to be empowered. One of the most transformative figures in American
history, Atlanta native Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., said that everyone can be great because everyone can
serve. At Georgia Tech, we also know that everyone can contribute to Progress and Service because
everyone can learn. If technology is to work for all people, it must be developed by all people and be
accessible to all people.
But while talent is equally distributed, the opportunity to learn and grow is often not. Women, racial
and ethnic minorities, individuals from rural communities and from low-income families are still
underrepresented at Georgia Tech and other leading technological universities, thus limiting the scope
of perspectives shaping our future. Underrepresentation also exists among faculty and staff roles,
underscoring our responsibility to remove barriers of access, to dismantle underlying causes of
institutional exclusion, and ensure that talented individuals from all backgrounds across our
community can contribute to our shared mission. The story of our city — the epicenter of a movement
that restored basic civil rights to millions of people across the nation — demonstrates how much
stronger we are when we embrace diversity of people and ideas. As champions of innovation in our
local economy, we will strive to help Atlanta and the global Georgia Tech community become examples
of vibrant, inclusive entrepreneurship.

Strong Local Roots, Broad Global Reach
Originally established to help industrialize Georgia and a war-torn American South, Georgia Tech
became a critical element in Atlanta’s emergence as a city of national and worldwide prominence: a

-- 6 of 22 --

global transportation hub, a site of commerce, the home of iconic business giants, and an incubator of
transformative social and cultural movements. Atlanta has, indeed, become one of the most globally
connected cities in the world and a leading international meeting place — as it memorably showed
when it hosted the Centennial Olympic Games in 1996.
Like its home city, Georgia Tech has become a globally recognized and a reliable partner in supporting
international collaboration, education, commerce, and research in complex issues that affect us all.
Those collaborations and partnerships have demonstrated that global relevance is not at odds with
local impact. Exposure to other cultures prepares our students to lead in the global economy. The
cultural and demographic diversity, and the nature of the issues that we face in our immediate
community, offer a unique ground for testing solutions that can set an example for other parts of the
world. And the exceptional talent we attract from around the world positions Georgia Tech to make
unique contributions to local and global problems, build strong bridges to the world, and strengthen
the global competitiveness of our state.
The pandemic of 2020 has highlighted that the most consequential challenges we face are global in
nature and require global collaboration and solutions. It has also shown how essential technology is for
supporting collaboration at the local and global levels, for the rapid diffusion of solutions, and, very
specially, for the delivery of learning. Georgia Tech’s leadership in learning technology and innovation
—which has produced, among other tangible results, the world’s largest online master’s program in
computer science — proved instrumental in our ability to deliver education despite the disruption. It
demonstrated how technology can help create a truly global network of learning and innovation and
expand access. But it also highlighted the gaps in technological access for people in rural and low-
income communities.

Creating a Better Future
Georgia Tech has been an engine of Progress and Service for more than 135 years and is ready to play
an even greater role going forward. With humility, and yet great confidence in our history and our
unique capabilities, Georgia Tech is redefining what it means to be a leading public technological
research university in this new era, committed to empowering people of all backgrounds and to
integrating our resources across disciplines to create a better future for our community — locally,
nationally, and globally.

-- 7 of 22 --

Our Strategy Guided by Values, Reinforced Through Culture
Our values are foundational in everything we do. They are our lodestar. Values define who we are and
who we aspire to be as a community. They help us make decisions. They refer to an inclusive “we” and
apply to every member of the Georgia Tech community — student, faculty, staff, alumni, and affiliate.
No matter the role, the values are meant to guide our priorities every day, to help us focus on our
important, shared mission.
Students are our top priority. We are educators first and foremost, committed to developing leaders
who advance technology and improve the human condition. We measure our success by the
achievements of our students and the impact of our graduates in improving the lives of others.
We strive for excellence. We strive to be among the best at what we do and to set high expectations
for each of us individually and for our community as a whole. The expectation of excellence, which is
instrumental to our ability to have a meaningful impact in the world, extends to our teaching, our
research and creative endeavors, our athletic programs, and our operations.
We thrive on diversity. We see diversity of backgrounds and perspectives as essential to learning,
discovery, and creation. We strive to remove barriers to access and success, and to build an inclusive
community where people of all backgrounds have the opportunity to learn and contribute to our
mission.
We celebrate collaboration. We enable and celebrate collaboration across disciplines and
perspectives, between units and departments, and with other organizations at home and around the
world. We value the contributions of all members of our community, promote civil and respectful
discourse, and help one another succeed.
We champion innovation. We inspire, empower, and provide the resources and environment for
innovative ideas and solutions to flourish. We welcome new concepts and approaches that lead to
creative ideas and solutions.
We safeguard freedom of inquiry and expression. We protect the freedom of all members of our
community to ask questions, seek truth, and express their views. We cherish diversity of ideas as
necessary for learning, discovery, scholarship, and creativity.
We nurture the well-being of our community. We strive to build a healthy and vibrant environment
that helps our students and every member of our community grow holistically and develop the self-
awareness, knowledge, and practices necessary to pursue healthy, purposeful, fulfilling lives.
We act ethically. We hold one another to the highest standards of professional and ethical conduct.
We are transparent and accountable, and strive to earn and maintain the public trust.
We are responsible stewards. We are careful stewards of the resources we are entrusted with and
strive to be an example of sustainability, efficiency, respect, and responsibility.

-- 8 of 22 --

Six Areas of Strategic Focus
Defining our strategy for the next decade requires focus on a select number of key priorities. In order
to achieve our vision for the future, we will pursue meaningful and measurable progress in six strategic
focus areas:
• Amplify Impact: Embrace our power as agents of change for the public good and generate
talent, ideas, and solutions with unmatched impact and scale to help define and address the
most critical problems of our time, locally and globally.
• Champion Innovation: Champion our leadership position as an engine of innovation and
entrepreneurship, and collaborate with other public and private actors to create economic
opportunity and mobility and position Atlanta and Georgia as examples of inclusive innovation.
• Connect Globally: Strengthen our role as a convener of worldwide collaboration, and build a
global learning network to expand our reach and amplify our impact.
• Expand Access: Empower people of all backgrounds and stages of life to learn and contribute to
technological and human progress.
• Cultivate Well-Being: Strengthen our culture of well-being and create an environment of
holistic learning where all members of our community can grow and learn to lead healthy,
purposeful, impactful lives.
• Lead by Example: Lead and inspire by example by creating a culture of deliberate innovation in
all our practices and be an example of efficiency, sustainability, ethics, equity, and inclusion.

The Georgia Tech Graduate
The Georgia Tech graduate will be a creative, ethical, globally minded, technologically sophisticated
innovator and problem-solver committed to making a positive difference in their communities, their
organizations, and the world.

-- 9 of 22 --

Our Priority Goals
Our six strategic focus areas each have a priority goal with four to six key objectives that describe the
expected outcomes we anticipate as we implement this plan. The Moving Into Action section describes
our initial ideas for strategies to achieve those objectives. The Tracking Our Progress section indicates
the metrics we will rely on to evaluate and communicate our progress. A series of implementation
teams will develop more detailed plans, strategies, and targets.
These goals set the strategic stage for the next 10 years, with an appreciation for the magnitude of the
change that has occurred since we began writing this plan in late 2019. The lessons of 2020 will endure
for many years to come. Our lives, expectations, and needs have been affected by the pandemic, the
economic downturn that ensued, and a moment of reckoning about the racial injustices that still exist
in our society. While the direction marked by this plan is intended to be long-lasting, our path to
navigate the next few years will likely evolve.
Across this plan, we have intentionally adopted the pronoun “we.” These goals are not intended to
apply to a specific unit, College, or School. They apply to all members of the Georgia Tech community,
which includes all staff, faculty and researchers, our alumni, and partners. Also, references to “all
students” are meant to include all students: residential and online, graduate and undergraduate. Any
reference to “all learners” includes all degree and non-degree learning program participants.

-- 10 of 22 --

Amplify Impact
The world is looking to research universities for solutions. Georgia Tech has earned a reputation for
excellence in research, education, and economic development. Now, as we continue to define what it
means to be a leading public technological university, we will amplify the impact our ideas and our
graduates have in the world.
To embrace our power as agents of change for the public good and generate talent,
ideas, and solutions with unmatched impact and scale to help define and address the
most critical problems of our time, locally and globally, we will:
• Be the nation's leading source of sought-after talent in technology-related fields at all career
stages.
• Be one of the nation’s most research-intensive academic institutions, recognized as a leading
contributor to solving the most critical and complex challenges of our time.
• Provide all students with transformative learning experiences to grow as creative, ethical,
globally aware, technologically sophisticated leaders who can define and solve problems to
improve the human condition.
• Be an anchor institution, partner, and catalyst of sustainable development in our city and our
state.
• Elevate the application of Georgia Tech’s thought leadership by decision-makers in the public
and private sectors, and the academic community.

Moving Into Action
• Strategically develop and expand programs in response to emerging market needs.
• Strategically expand research efforts in areas of high impact and growing national importance
(including life sciences and biomedical research, artificial intelligence, rapid response design,
and other emerging opportunities).
• Align multidisciplinary research efforts to help address the most critical local and global
challenges as articulated by the U.N. Sustainable Development Goals.
• Make experiential, problem-based service-learning a signature of all academic and research
programs.
• Infuse STEM disciplines with arts, humanities, and social sciences; strengthen the curriculum in
areas that support the U.N. Sustainable Development Goals; and create new multidisciplinary
curricular pathways.
• Adapt GTRI’s administrative structure to support its growth in impact and scale, and its
synergistic collaboration with all Colleges.
• Develop a regional network of collaborations to help define problems, mobilize resources, and
engage students, faculty, and staff to amplify our impact on the sustainable human and
environmental development of our local communities.

-- 11 of 22 --

• Through strategic communications, position Georgia Tech as a trusted public voice and
convener that informs decision makers in business, academia, and public policy on current and
emerging issues of consequence.
• Ensure that all students are prepared for career success and impact.

Tracking Our Progress
• Number of graduates in engineering and computing, and at the intersection of technology and
other disciplines, compared to other leading research universities.
• Research and development expenditures.
• Number of national academies members.
• Metrics of career success of graduates and return on investment.
• Number of students who complete a cross-disciplinary pathway and participate in a
transformative experiential, problem-based, or service-learning experience.
• Number of faculty actively involved in community engagement.
• Increase earned media driven by faculty thought leadership and increase awareness and
positive perception in the general community.
• Number of new projects and collaborations that show measurable contributions to advance the
U.N. Sustainable Development Goals.

-- 12 of 22 --

Champion Innovation
The talent, entrepreneurial spirit, and creative thinking of Georgia Tech students, faculty, and staff are
helping Atlanta grow as a global hub of innovation, a source of new ideas and solutions, powering
leading companies and new startups. We will develop a global reputation for a new kind of inclusive
innovation where entrepreneurs of all backgrounds can find opportunities to succeed and make a
difference.
To champion our leadership position as an engine of innovation and entrepreneurship,
and collaborate with other public and private actors to create economic opportunity
and mobility and position Atlanta and Georgia as examples of inclusive innovation, we
will:
• Be the most attractive university for high-impact venture creation.
• Be an innovation leader that defines the future of higher education with new solutions that
dramatically improve access, learning effectiveness, and lifelong student success.
• Be one of the world’s top universities in invention disclosures, licensing of intellectual property,
and innovation collaborations with leading companies.
• Be an anchor institution, partner, and catalyst of inclusive entrepreneurship, social innovation,
and economic opportunity in Atlanta and Georgia.
• Integrate art and creativity across programs at Georgia Tech.

Moving Into Action
• Develop and expand signature programs to develop student entrepreneurship and support
student startups.
• Build a frictionless technology transfer process and a rich network of venture capital,
incubators, and corporate partners to scale the entrepreneurship ecosystem at and around
Georgia Tech.
• Create new academic programs at the intersection of arts and technology, and incorporate
learning experiences into the curriculum to develop student creativity across disciplines.
• Pioneer novel teaching technologies, alliances, and science-based approaches to elevate
learning outcomes and student success.
• Expand makerspaces and studios in support of entrepreneurial exploration, social innovation,
artistic expression, and collaboration with the community.
• Develop and expand student programs in social innovation and entrepreneurship.
• Develop programs to support female and minority entrepreneurs.
• Develop excellence in rapid response, frugal science, and technology solutions.

-- 13 of 22 --

Tracking Our Progress
• Number, size, capital raised and jobs created through new ventures by students, faculty
spinoffs, and startups incubated and supported.
• Number of U.S. and international patents granted.
• Revenues from research and innovation partnerships with companies.
• Number of students engaged in entrepreneurship learning experiences.
• Number of graduates in majors or minors at the intersection of arts, business, technology, and
sciences.
• Number of graduates from nontraditional, innovative programs.
• Student satisfaction with the quality and value of the learning experience and outcomes.
• Number of minority entrepreneurs and business owners assisted.

-- 14 of 22 --

Connect Globally
The most consequential challenges we face as a society require global collaboration and solutions.
Georgia Tech has become a globally recognized, reliable partner in supporting international
collaboration, education, commerce, and research into complex issues. As the world becomes more
global, so will we.
To strengthen our role as a convener of worldwide collaboration, and build a global
learning network to expand our reach and amplify our impact, we will:
• Prepare all Georgia Tech students to be cross-culturally competent, globally minded leaders.
• Be a leader in study abroad participation among leading public research universities.
• Be a hub of a global learning and an innovation network through global partnerships, alumni
engagement, lifelong learning, and research collaborations.
• Lead and contribute to global collaborative efforts that advance the U.N. Sustainable
Development Goals through our education, research, and service.

Moving Into Action
• Expand international partnerships for student exchange, study abroad, and virtual exchanges.
• Remove financial barriers for study, work, and research abroad for all students.
• Embed cross-cultural and global learning opportunities in all programs.
• Expand collaborations with other globally focused institutions to tackle critical global issues.
• Expand high-impact, multidisciplinary, technology-based collaborations between Georgia Tech
in Atlanta and Georgia Tech’s current and future international hubs in the areas of academics,
research, economic development, and community engagement.
• Become a central actor in the major global activities for U.N. Sustainable Development Goals
advancement and demonstrate global U.N. Sustainable Development Goals capabilities at
home by ensuring campus-wide decisions and practices that advance elements of the U.N.
Sustainable Development Goals.

Tracking Our Progress
• Share of graduates having studied, worked, or conducted research abroad.
• Number of actively engaged alumni in international locations.
• Number of new projects and collaborations that show measurable contributions to advancing
the U.N. Sustainable Development Goals.
• Number of international enrollments in all educational offerings.

-- 15 of 22 --

Expand Access
The magnitude of the challenges and opportunities we face demands that we empower and include
more people, backgrounds, and perspectives in the process of learning, discovery, and creation. We
will remove barriers of access for underrepresented students, champion lifelong learning, and recruit
and retain a diverse faculty and staff.
To empower people of all backgrounds and stages of life to learn and contribute to
technological and human progress, we will:
• Remove all barriers for financially vulnerable students and those traditionally underrepresented
at Georgia Tech.
• Be the nation’s leading source of women and underrepresented minority graduates in
technology-related fields.
• Be a national leader in faculty diversity, especially in technology-related fields.
• Be the nation’s leading provider of lifelong professional graduate degrees and non-degree
programs for working professionals in technology-related fields.

Moving Into Action
• Partner with public schools in Atlanta and throughout Georgia to inspire underrepresented
minority and low-income students to pursue learning and career pathways in science and
technology.
• Strengthen initiatives to increase the number of girls who pursue learning and career pathways
in science and technology.
• Dramatically increase need-based scholarship funding.
• Expand services to increase engagement and support success of students from low-income
families and underrepresented communities.
• Actively identify and address the underlying causes of underrepresentation and disparities in
outcomes.
• Expand services to support the success of women in disciplines where they are
underrepresented.
• Aggressively recruit, develop, and retain women faculty.
• Aggressively recruit, develop, and retain faculty from underrepresented racial and ethnic
groups.
• Expand the portfolio of online degree and non-degree programs for lifelong learners and
increase the number of students served.

Tracking Our Progress
• Number of women graduates in technology-related fields.
• Number of underrepresented minority graduates in technology-related fields.
• Percentage of women in faculty and staff roles where they are underrepresented.

-- 16 of 22 --

• Percentage of underrepresented minority faculty.
• Six-year graduation rates for underrepresented minorities and Pell grant recipients.
• Funds raised to support need-based scholarships.
• Percentage of students awarded Pell grants.
• Student feedback about equity, inclusion, and access to opportunities reflected in climate and
culture assessments.
• Number and diversity of enrollments, credit and non-credit, in lifetime and career-long
learning.

-- 17 of 22 --

Cultivate Well-Being
Through a collaborative, holistic approach to campus health and well-being, we will create an inclusive
environment where all our students and employees can flourish and be fulfilled. We will cultivate well-
being by focusing on the total person — mental and physical health, growth, and opportunity.
To strengthen our culture of well-being and create an environment of holistic learning
where all members of our community can grow and learn to lead healthy, purposeful,
impactful lives, we will:
• Embed a total person approach into every academic program with a focus on the holistic
development and physical and psychological well-being of every student.
• Strengthen access to well-being services and resources for all members of the Georgia Tech
community.
• Strengthen a culture of well-being and psychological safety among students, faculty, and staff.
• Further integrate intercollegiate athletics into our campus life and local community, in the
promotion of a culture of well-being.
• Strengthen the visual and performing arts on our campus and facilitate access for all members
of our community.

Moving Into Action
• Create Institute-wide well-being metrics to monitor progress, solicit and act on student
feedback, and identify and address issues that are barriers to student success and well-being.
• Recognize and reward faculty for excellence in teaching and contributions to student well-
being.
• Expand and scale programs for physical, mental, and emotional well-being open to all students,
faculty, and staff.
• Expand, integrate, and strengthen curricular options to foster and support student well-being.
• Expand opportunities for participation in visual and performing arts experiences.
• Expand the total person philosophy to support overall success of student-athletes in every
aspect of their lives.
• Create a culture and built environment that is safe, accessible, and supportive for all members
of the Georgia Tech community.
• Identify and address the well-being needs of graduate, transfer, and nontraditional students.
• Create initiatives to support and nurture the well-being of alumni.

Tracking Our Progress
• Measures of student well-being and engagement.
• Measures of satisfaction with student services, housing, dining, and transportation.
• Measures of employee psychological safety, engagement, and well-being.

-- 18 of 22 --

• Participation in visual and performing arts experiences across the community.
• Measures of student-athlete well-being, and academic and career success.
• Student feedback on impact of teaching approaches on their well-being.
• Engagement of alumni in lifelong learning that promotes their well-being.

-- 19 of 22 --

Lead by Example
Georgia Tech strives to be known for innovation, collaboration, and integrity. The human-centered
nature of science, technology, and related fields includes how we conduct our research and our
teaching, the way we do our jobs, and how we equip the next generation to face some of the world’s
greatest challenges.
To lead and inspire by example by creating a culture of deliberate innovation in all our
practices and be an example of efficiency, sustainability, ethics, equity, and inclusion,
we will:
• Be a model of excellence through continuous improvement, deliberate innovation, and best
practices in all services, systems, and practices.
• Be a leader in leveraging data analytic tools and processes to inform decision-making and be an
example in the protection, management, and governance of data.
• Develop a world-class workforce committed to enhancing employee skills and providing a
diverse, equitable, and inclusive environment.
• Demonstrate our commitment to sustainability in the development and management of our
campus.

Moving Into Action
• Create cross-functional councils across all administrative areas to monitor performance,
leverage faculty expertise, and propose continuous improvements to administrative systems
and practices.
• Empower the campus community with seamless, secure data access and predictive analytic
tools for making informed and transparent decisions and to drive innovation.
• Develop programs, policies, processes, and systems to protect, manage, govern, and deliver our
data through a culture of privacy, security, and compliance.
• Establish and implement a world-class talent strategy including recruitment, development,
engagement, and performance feedback.
• Create opportunities for all staff to advance their careers, pursue leadership positions, and
participate in affordable education opportunities.
• Develop exceptional leaders who consistently demonstrate cultural competency, inclusiveness,
transparency, accountability, and ethical behavior.
• Institutionalize anchor institution practices in areas such as procurement, workforce
development, business development, and neighborhood development practices.
• Develop and execute a Climate Action Plan for the Institute.
• Integrate our pursuit of equity and justice across our programs, practices, and culture.
• Leverage our campus and operations as a living learning environment that engages students,
faculty, and staff.
• Rigorously evaluate and align investments with our strategic priorities.

-- 20 of 22 --

Tracking Our Progress
• Measures of effective teaching and learning.
• Measures of campus sustainability performance (e.g., STARS framework).
• Number and magnitude of data breaches and leaks.
• Administrative efficiency, effectiveness, and improvement metrics.
• Metrics of service quality and internal customer satisfaction.
• Ranking as a “best place to work” regionally and nationally.
• Diversity representation in leadership, staff, and faculty roles as compared with market
availability.
• Measurement of leader effectiveness and alignment with our values.

-- 21 of 22 --

Conclusion
We started with appreciative inquiry, asking groups and individuals what they see as Georgia Tech’s
strengths, and challenging them to “dream big.” That led to the development of our narrative, vision
and mission, strategic themes, and values and beliefs in a plan for the next decade. It is interesting that
Georgia Tech’s last strategic plan was designed during a global recession, while much of this one was
finalized during a pandemic. For more than 135 years, the people of Georgia Tech have dared to
imagine and then create solutions for a better future no matter their current circumstances. The
innovative leadership continues — for Progress and Service for all.

-- 22 of 22 --

